# Trace Acquisition

This is a quick tutorial on the acquisition of traces from a VM. This tutorial
covers the following toolchains:

 * **CASE 1**: Browser + vilanoo2 + mosgi + rawtrace-analysis
 * **CASE 2**: Selenese test case/suite + vilanoo2 + mosgi + rawtrace-analysis

The single steps mentioned in the "case" paragraphs are explained below.

---

## CASE 1: Browser + vilanoo2 + mosgi + rawtrace-analysis

This covers use cases in which you would like to use your own browser to visit
the web application and capture dynamic traces from the network and the VM.

At this point we assume you prepared VM images with [zumka](zumka/README.md). 
If not, have a look at the documentation on how to use zumka. We also assume
that you installed everything correctly.

In general, the steps that you will need to follow are:

 1. Run mosgi and vilanoo2;
 2. Configure your browser to use vilanoo2 as proxy and play around;
 3. Alt mosgi and vilanoo2;
 4. Run rawtrace-analysis;

## CASE 2: Selenese test case/suite + vilanoo2 + mosgi + rawtrace-analysis

This covers use cases in which you have prepared a Selenese test case or test 
suite (in HTML format!). Make sure you have tested the Selenese HTML file and
that it works properly.

We assume you prepared VM images with [zumka](zumka/README.md). If not, have a 
look at the documentation on how to use zumka. We also assume that you installed 
everything correctly. Furthermore, we assume also that you know how to create
Selenese HTML files and you are capable of verifying that they work smoothly.

In general, the steps of this use case are:

 1. Run mosgi and vilanoo2 with a Selenese HTML file as input;
 2. Run rawtrace-analysis;

---

## Change proxy configuration of your browser and play around

If you are not familiar with the terms proxy and/or browser please consider
reading up on those terms and how they interact with each other before proceeding.
We assume working knowledge of those (and comparable) basic terms from 
here on.

In case of using Selenese-Runner to replay recorded traces you do not need to set a proxy because this is done by Selenese-Runner automatically. 

## Run mosgi and vilanoo2

The first step is to start mosgi: 

```bash
$ cd mosgi/src
$ ./run.sh -h
```

It is likely that you will use the following command line:

```bash
$ ./run.sh -x /tmp/ -P /opt/bitnami/php/tmp/ -p 8844 -i 127.0.0.1 -t 192.168.56.101 -r root -c bitnami -s $path_to_your_mosgi_sqlitedb
```

Mosgi's parameters explained:
```
Usage: run.sh [-P|--php-session-folder ARG] [-x|--xdebug-trace-file ARG]
              [-p|--port ARG] [-i|--interface ARG] [-t|--target-system ARG]
              [-r|--target-root ARG] [-c|--host-pwd ARG] [-s|--sql-db-path ARG]

Available options:
  -P, --php-session-folder ARG
                           absolute path on the guest system to the folder where the relevant php-sessions are stored (default:/opt/bitnami/php/tmp/)
  -x, --xdebug-trace-file ARG
                           absolute path to the file containing machine readable trace generated by xdebug on the guest system (default:/tmp/xdebug.xt)
  -p, --port ARG           the port mosgi shall listen on for a command connection (default:8844)
  -i, --interface ARG      the ip-address mosgi shall listen on for a command connection (default:127.0.0.1)
  -t, --target-system ARG  the ip-address of the guest system to connect to via ssh - sshd needs to be running
  -r, --target-root ARG    the root user of the guest system (default:root)
  -c, --host-pwd ARG       the password for the root account of the guest system (default:bitnami)
  -s, --sql-db-path ARG    the file path to the sqlite db
```

After that, Mosgi is up and running waiting for incoming connections at 
localhost port 9292. 

Now, run vilanoo2 (to intercept also HTTPS request, please read 
[this](vilanoo2/src/README.md):

```bash
$ cd vilanoo2/src/
$ ./vilanoo2.py -s $path_to_your_vilanoo_sqlitedb [-S $path_to_your_selenese_testcase] -M $ip_of_mosgi_host (usually localhost) -P $port_mosgi_listening_on (usually 9292)
```

In order to replay an existing selenese tetscase use the `S` parameter.

The `-S` or `--selenese` parameter will instruct vilanoo2 to run selenese-runner
in interactive mode. Selenese-runner will be configured to use vilanoo2 as a proxy.

When vilanoo2 is used with `-S`, then vilanoo2 will store in the
SQLite database `$path_to_your_vilanoo_sqlitedb` the list of selenese commands 
and correlate them with the HTTP requests. 


===> Run "./run-test.sh"
===> Pay attention to the Firefox version

## Analysis of raw traces.

Vilanoo2 and Mosgi generate **raw** traces. The output of these two tools are 
two SQLite3 databases. Starting from these databases, dyntrace extract traces 
with SQL operations, session data snapshots, and disk operations.

```bash
$ cd rawtrace-analysis/src/
$ ./run-analyzer.sh -m $path_to_your_mosgi_sqlitedb -v $path_to_your_vilanoo_sqlitedb -d $path_to_your_rawtraceanalysis_sqlitedb -S ../../data/DBSchema.sql
```

This will create a new SQLiteDB3 `$path_to_your_rawtraceanalysis_sqlitedb` from 
the analysis on `$path_to_your_mosgi_sqlitedb` and `$path_to_your_vilanoo_sqlitedb`.


**WARNING: DO NOT USE THIS SCRIPT IN PARALLEL.**
It will most likely crash and if not the results are unpredictable.

Then continue with the README.md located in `./deep-modelling/`.
